                    NEdit Version 5.2.0beta,  July 2001

$Id: README,v 1.7 2001/07/04 09:42:52 uid30962 Exp $
	     
NEdit is a multi-purpose text editor for the X Window System, which combines a
standard, easy to use, graphical user interface with the thorough functionality
and stability required by users who edit text eight hours a day.  It provides
intensive support for development in a wide variety of languages, text
processors, and other tools, but at the same time can be used productively by
just about anyone who needs to edit text.

As of this version, NEdit may be freely distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public License (see below).

AUTHORS

NEdit was written by Mark Edel, Joy Kyriakopulos, Christopher Conrad, Jim
Clark, Arnulfo Zepeda-Navratil, Suresh Ravoor, Tony Balinski, Max Vohlken,
Yunliang Yu, and Donna Reid.

The regular expression matching routines used in NEdit are adapted (with
permission) from original code written by Henry Spencer at the University of
Toronto.

Syntax highlighting patterns and smart indent macros were contributed by:
Simon T. MacDonald,  Maurice Leysens, Matt Majka, Alfred Smeenk, Alain
Fargues, Christopher Conrad, Scott Markinson, Konrad Bernloehr, Ivan Herman,
Patrice Venant, Christian Denat, Philippe Couton, Max Vohlken, Markus
Schwarzenberg, Himanshu Gohel, Steven C. Kapp, Michael Turomsha, John Fieber,
Chris Ross, Nathaniel Gray, Joachim Lous, Mike Duigou, and Seak, Teng-Fong.

NEdit sources, executables, additional documentation, and contributed software
are available from the NEdit web site at http://nedit.org.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License below for more details.

VERSION 5.1

Version 5.1 is the first release of NEdit under the GNU General Public
License, and the first release to be done entirely by volunteer effort.

The most significant enhancements in this release are:

  * New regular expression code, boosts highlighting performance by 40%,
    and introduces many new and powerful features to regular expression
    operations and syntax highlighting.
  
  * Incremental search, and optional search bar.
  
  * New ctags code with full support for Exuberant Ctags, better
    handling of tag collisions, multiple tag file support, on-demand
    loading of tag files, and automatic reload of modified tag files.

  * Optional display of line numbers along the left side of the text.

  * NEdit can now read and write MS DOS format files.
  
  * New built-in syntax highlighting patterns for Lex, PostScript, SQL,
    and Matlab, and improved SGML/HTML and Java patterns.  Many minor
    improvements to other patterns.
    
  * Improved international character set input
  
  * New macro subroutines: list_dialog, getenv, set_language_mode.
  
  * Optional warnings about external modifications to files
  
  * Clearcase awareness
  
  * Session manager restart capability
     
There are also many smaller improvements and bug fixes, see the release
notes for details.


BUILDING NEDIT

Pre-built executables will be available for most major Unix and VMS systems, so
check the NEdit web page (http://nedit.org), first.  Building NEdit requires
the Motif GUI library, e.g. libXm.a or libXm.so, which is a standard part
of commercial Unix systems, but which requires separate installation on Linux
and other free Unix variants.  A free version of Motif, called LessTif,
is now available and stable enough to run NEdit reasonably well on these systems.
If you are using LessTif, you should have LessTif 0.92.26 or greater.
Older versions may not work very well.  See the LessTif section under
PLATFORM SPECIFIC ISSUES for details.

The two directories called source and util contain the sources for NEdit.
Util should be built first, followed by source.  The makefile in this directory
can be used to build both in sequence if your system is one of the supported
machines and no modifications are necessary to the makefiles.  To build NEdit
from this directory, issue the command: "make <machine-type>"; where
<machine-type> is one of suffixes of a Makefile in the directory "makefiles". 
For example, to build the Silicon Graphics version, type:

	make sgi

If everything works properly, this will produce an executable called nedit in
the directory called source.


The Source Directories

Since executables are already available for the supported systems, you are
probably not just rebuilding an existing configuration, and need to know more
about how the directories are organized.

The util directory builds a library file called libNUtil.a, which is later
linked with the code in the source directory to create the nedit executable.

The makefiles in both source directories consist of two parts, a machine
dependent part and a machine independent part.  The machine dependent makefiles
can be found in the directory called "makefiles", and contain machine specific
header information.  They invoke a common machine independent part called
Makefile.common.  To compile the files in either of these directories, copy or
link one of the system-specific makefiles from the directory "makefiles" into
the directory, and issue the command:

    make -f Makefile.<machine-type>
    
(where <machine type> is the Makefile suffix).  Alternatively, you can
name the file "Makefile" and simply type "make".

If no makefile exists for your system, check the NEdit web site at:
http://nedit.org for more contributed Makefiles.  If you can't find one that's
close, start from Makefile.generic.  See the comments in Makefile.generic for
more porting information.

 
Building NEdit on VMS Systems

Command files are provided for compiling and linking files in the source
and util directories.  comutil.com compiles the files in the util directory
and produces two library files, vmsutils.olb and libutil.olb.  comnedit.com
compiles and links the files in the source directory to produce the nedit.exe
executable.


Additional Settings

Some C preprocessor macros may be used to en/disable certain
parts of the code. Usually this correponds to some non-important
features being selected or certain workarounds for platform-specifc
problems. Those which might be useful on more than one platform
are documented in makefiles/Makefile.generic.


INSTALLATION

NEdit consists of a single, stand-alone executable file which does not require
any special installation.  To install NEdit on Unix systems, simply put the
nedit executable in your path.  On VMS systems, nedit must be defined as a
foreign command so that it can process command line arguments.  For example,
if nedit.exe were in the directory mydir on the disk called mydev, adding the
following line to your login.com file would define the nedit command:

	$ ned*it :== $mydev:[mydir]nedit.exe

To use NEdit in client/server mode, you also need the nedit client program, nc,
which, again, needs no special installation, except in the VMS case, as above.
On some systems, the name nc may conflict with an existing program.  In that
case, choose a different name for the executable and simply rename it.  The
recommend alternative is "ncl".


RUNNING NEDIT

If you are accessing a host Unix system from a remote workstation or X terminal,
you need to set the Unix environment variable for your display:

	% setenv DISPLAY devicename:0
	
where devicename is the network node name of the workstation or X terminal
where you are typing.  On VMS systems, the equivalent command is:

	$ set display/create/node=devicename

To run NEdit, simply type "nedit", optionally followed by the name of a file or
files to edit.  On-line help is available from the pulldown menu on the far
right of the menu bar.  For more information on the syntax of the nedit command
line, look under the heading of "NEdit Command Line."


PLATFORM SPECIFIC ISSUES

Systems with LessTif, rather than Motif libraries

As of Lesstif 0.92.26, NEdit is very stable with Lesstif. 
You can get the latest LessTif version from http://www.lesstif.org.
If you are having trouble building with LessTif, remember there are
pre-compiled statically linked executables available from http://nedit.org.
Known bugs which might show off in NEdit linked with LessTif include:

  1) Some dialogs which are intended to be modal (prevent other activity
     while up) are not, and doing other actions while these dialogs are
     up can cause trouble (.89.9+)
     
  2) Switching to continuous wrap mode, sometimes the horizontal scroll
     remains partially drawn after the change, rather than disappearing
     completely as it should. (.89.9+)
  
  3) Secondary selection operations are not yet supported in text fields.


Linux Systems

The default key bindings for arrow keys in fvwm interfere with some of the
arrow key bindings in NEdit, particularly, Ctrl+Arrow and Alt+Arrow.  You
may want to re-bind them either in NEdit (see Customizing -> Key Binding
in the Help menu) or in fvwm in your .fvwmrc file.

Some older Linux distributions are missing the /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/XKeysymDB
file, which is necessary for running Motif programs.  When XKeysymDB is
missing, NEdit will spew screenfulls of messages about translation table syntax
errors, and many keys won't work.  You can obtain a copy of the XKeysymDB file
from the contrib sub-directory of the NEdit distribution directory.  

SGI Systems

Beginning with IRIX 6.3, SGI is distributing a customized version of NEdit
along with their operating system releases.  Their installation uses an
app-defaults file (/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/NEdit) which overrides the
default settings in any new nedit version that you install, and may result in
missing accelerator keys or cosmetic appearance glitches.  If you are
re-installing NEdit for the entire system, just remove the existing app-
defaults file.  If you want to run a newer copy individually, get a copy of
the app-defaults file for this version the contrib sub-directory of the
distribution directory for this version on ftp.nedit.org (/pub/<version>/
contrib/nedit.app-defaults), and install it in your home directory or set
XAPPLRESDIR or XUSERFILESEARCHPATH to point to a directory and install it
there.  In all cases, the file should be named simply NEdit.

No additional installation or resource settings are necessary on IRIX systems
before 6.3

HP-UX Systems

If you are using HPVUE and have trouble setting colors, for example part
of the menu bar stubornly remains at whatever HPVUE's default is, try setting:

   nedit*useColorObj: False

IBM AIX Systems

Due to an optimizer bug in IBM's C compiler, the file, textDisp.c, must be
compiled without optimization on some AIX systems.

Solaris (SunOS 5.3 and beyond) Systems

The nedit_solaris executable may require the environment variable OPENWINHOME
to be set to the directory where Open Windows is installed.  If this is not set
properly, NEdit will spew screenfulls of messages about translation table
syntax errors.

Solaris 2.4 -- Add -DDONT_HAVE_GLOB to the CFLAGS line in Makefile.solaris.

Solaris 2.5 -- Solaris 2.5 systems were shipped with a bad shared Motif
library, in which the file selection dialog (Open, Save, Save As, Include,
etc.) shows long path names in the file list, but no horizontal scroll bar,
and no way to read the actual file names.  Depending on your system, the
patch is one of ID# 103461-07, # 102226-19, or # 103186-21.  It affects all
Motif based programs which use the library.  If you can't patch your system,
you might want to just try the nedit_sunos executable (from ftp.nedit.org
/pub/<version>), which is statically linked with a good Motif.  You can also
set the X resource: nedit.stdOpenDialog to True, which at least gives you a
text field where you can enter file names by hand.

Solaris 2.6 -- If you're experiencing performance problems (windows come up
slowly), the patch for Sun's shared Motif library is ID# 105284-04.  Installing
the patch alone will improve nedit's performance dramatically.  The patch also
enables a resource, *XmMenuReduceGrabs. Setting this to True will eliminate the
delay completely.

SunOS 4.x Systems

On some SunOS systems, NEdit will also complain about translation table syntax
errors.  This happens when Motif can't access the keysym database, usually
located in the file /usr/lib/X11/XKeysymDB.  If this file exists on your
system, but NEdit fails to locate it properly, you can set the environment
variable XKEYSYMDB to point to the file.  If you can't find the file, or if
some of the errors persist despite setting XKEYSYMDB, there is a XKeysymDB
which you can use to update or replace your /usr/lib/X11/XKeysymDB file
available in the contrib sub-directory of the NEdit distribution directory.
If you don't want to change your existing XKeysymDB file, make a local copy
and set XKEYSYMDB to point to it.

If you find that some of the labeled keys on your keyboard are not properly
bound to the corresponding action in NEdit, try the following:

  1) Get a copy of motifbind.sun (for Sun standard keyboards), or
     motifbind.sun_at (for Sun PC style keyboards) from the NEdit contrib
     directory on ftp.nedit.org:/pub/<version>/contrib.
  2) Copy it to a file called .motifbind in your home directory.
  3) Shutdown and restart your X server.


COMPATIBILITY WITH PREVIOUS VERSIONS

Existing .nedit Files

NEdit 5.1 makes significant changes to the syntax of regular expressions.
Mostly, these are upward compatible, but two changes; introducing the brace
operator, and changing the meaning of \0; are not.  Brace characters must now
be escaped with backslash, and & must be used in place of \0 in substitutions.

NEdit 5.1 employs a new built-in upgrade mechanism which will automatically
detect pre-5.1 .nedit files and fix regular expressions which appear in
user-defined highlight patterns.  The automatic upgrade mechanism, however, can
not fix regular expression problems within user-defined macros.  If you have
a macro which is failing under NEdit 5.1, you will have to fix it by hand.

If you are upgrading from a pre-5.0 version of NEdit, there are significant
changes to the macro language, and you are best off simply editing out the
nedit.macroCommands section of your .nedit file, generating a new .nedit file,
and then re-introducing your user-written commands into the new file.  Most
macros written for previous versions will function properly under the new macro
language.  The most common problems with old macros is lack of a terminating
newline on the last line of the macro, and the addition of "<", ">", and now
"{" to the regular expression syntax.  These characters must now be escaped
with \ (backslash).  Also, if you have been using a font other than the default
for the text portion of your NEdit windows, be sure to check the Preferences ->
Default Settings -> Text Font dialog, and select highlighting fonts which match
your primary font in size.  Matching in height is desirable, but not essential,
and sometimes impossible to achive on some systems.  When fonts don't match in
height, turning on syntax highlighting will cause the window size to change
slightly.  NEdit can handle unmatched font sizes (width), but leaving them
unmatched means sometimes columns and indentation don't line up (as with
proportional fonts).


FURTHER INFORMATION

More information is available in the file nedit.doc in this kit, from NEdit's
on-line help system, and from the enclosed FAQ file.  There is also a web page
for NEdit at: http://nedit.org.  For discussion with other NEdit users, or to
receive notification of new releases and news about news, you can subscribe to
one or both of the NEdit mailing lists, discuss@nedit.org, and
announce@nedit.org.  The NEdit on-line help has information on subscribing
under Help -> Mailing Lists.


REPORTING BUGS

The NEdit developers subscribe to both discuss@nedit.org and develop@nedit.org,
either of which may be used for reporting bugs.  If you're not sure, or you
think the report might be of interest to the general NEdit user community,
send the report to discuss@nedit.org.  If it's something obvious and boring,
like we misspelled "anemometer" in the on-line help, send it to develop.  If
you don't want to subscribe to these lists, please add a note to your mail
about cc'ing you on responses.


GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

                             Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim
copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                                   Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you
can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2)
offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced
by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's
free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

                         GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
      TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program
or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the
Program a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or in
part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run, you
must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License.
(Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print
such an announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print
an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms
of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire
whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code,
which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give
any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically performing
source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding
source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to distribute
corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for noncommercial
distribution and only if you received the program in object code or executable
form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or
any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to
do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of
this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that
version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If
the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

                                 NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH
HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                        END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
