# $Id: nedit.pod,v 1.2 2003/11/22 13:03:38 edg Exp $
=pod

=head1 NAME

NEdit - Text Editor

=head1 SYNOPSYS

nedit [B<-read>] [B<-create>] [B<-line> I<n> | B<+>I<n>] [B<-server>]
      [B<-do> I<command>] [B<-tags> I<file>] [B<-tabs> I<n>] 
      [B<-wrap>] [B<-nowrap>] [B<-autowrap>] 
      [B<-autoindent>] [B<-noautoindent>] 
      [B<-autosave>] [B<-noautosave>] 
      [B<-lm> I<languagemode>] [B<-rows> n] [B<-columns> I<n>] 
      [B<-font> I<font>] 
      [B<-geometry>|B<-g> I<geometry>] [B<-iconic>] [B<-noiconic>] 
      [B<-display> I<[host]:server[.screen]>] 
      [B<-xrm> I<resourcestring>]
      [B<-svrname> I<name>] [B<-import> I<file>] 
      [B<-background>|B<-bg> I<color>] [B<-foreground>|B<-fg> I<color>] 
      [B<-V|-version>] [B<-->] [file...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NEdit is a standard GUI (Graphical User Interface) style text editor for
programs and plain-text files. It provides mouse based editing and a
streamlined editing style, based on popular Macintosh and MS Windows editors,
for users of X workstations and X terminals.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 

=item  B<-read> 

Open the file read-only regardless of the actual file protection.

=item  B<-create> 

Don't warn about file creation when a file doesn't exist.

=item  B<-line> I<n>, B<+>I<n> 

Go to line number I<n>.

=item  B<-server> 

Designate this session as an NEdit server, for processing commands from the
L<nc(1)> program. L<nc(1)> can be used to interface NEdit to code development
environments, mailers, etc., or just as a quick way to open files from the
shell command line without starting a new NEdit session.

=item  B<-do> I<command> 

Execute an NEdit macro or action. On each file following the B<-do> argument on
the command line. B<-do> is particularly useful from the L<nc(1)> program, where
`nc -do' can remotely execute commands in an nedit B<-server> session.

=item  B<-tags> I<file> 

Load a file of directions for finding definitions of program subroutines and
data objects. The file must be of the format generated by Exuberant Ctags, or
the standard Unix L<ctags(1)> command.

=item  B<-tabs> I<n> 

Set tab stops every I<n> characters.

=item  B<-wrap>, B<-nowrap> 

Wrap long lines at the right edge of the window rather than continuing them
past it. (Continuous Wrap mode)

=item  B<-autowrap>, B<-noautowrap> 

Wrap long lines when the cursor reaches the right edge of the window by
inserting newlines at word boundaries. (Auto Newline Wrap mode)

=item  B<-autoindent>, B<-noautoindent> 

Maintain a running indent.

=item  B<-autosave>, B<-noautosave> 

Maintain a backup copy of the file being edited under the name I<~filename> 
(on Unix) or I<_filename> (on VMS).

=item  B<-lm> I<languagemode> 

Initial language mode used for editing succeeding files.

=item  B<-rows> I<n> 

Default height in characters for an editing window.

=item  B<-columns> I<n> 

Default width in characters for an editing window.

=item  B<-font> I<font>, B<-fn> I<font> 

Font for text being edited. Font for menus and dialogs can be set with B<-xrm>
I<"*fontList:font">.

=item  B<-geometry> I<geometry>, B<-g> I<geometry> 

The initial size and/or location of editor windows. The argument geometry has
the form:

  [<width>x<height>][+|-][<xoffset>[+|-]<yoffset>]

where C`<width>' and C<< <height> >> are the desired width and
height of the window, and <xoffset> and C`<yoffset>' are the
distance from the edge of the screen to the window, + for top or left, - for
bottom or right. B<-geometry> can be specified for individual files on the
command line.

=item  B<-iconic>, B<-noiconic> 

Initial window state for succeeding files.

=item  B<-display> I<[host]:server[.screen]> 

The name of the X server to use. I<host> specifies the machine, I<server>
specifies the display server number, and I<screen> specifies the screen number.
I<host> or I<screen> can be omitted and default to the local machine, and
screen 0.

=item  B<-background> I<color>, B<-bg> I<color> 

Background color. The background color for text can be set separately with
B<-xrm> I<"nedit*text.background: color">.

=item  B<-foreground> I<color>, B<-fg> I<color> 

Foreground color. The foreground color for text can be set separately with
B<-xrm> I<"nedit*text.foreground: color">.

=item  B<-xrm> I<resourcestring> 

Set the value of an X resource to override a default value.

=item  B<-svrname> I<name> 

When starting nedit in server mode, name the server, such that it responds to
requests only when L<nc(1)> is given a corresponding B<-svrname> argument.  By
naming servers, you can run several simultaneously, and direct files and
commands specifically to any one.

=item  B<-import> I<file> 

Loads an additional preferences file on top of the existing defaults saved in
your I<.nedit> file.  To incorporate macros, language modes, and highlight
patterns and styles written by other users, run nedit with B<-import>
I<<file>>, then re-save your I<.nedit> file with
Preferences->Save Defaults.

=item  B<-V>, B<-version> 

Prints version and build information, to be mentioned when reporting bugs and
problems. 

=item B<-->

Treats all subsequent arguments as file names, even if they start with a dash.
This is so NEdit can access files that begin with the dash character. 

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item  DISPLAY

NEdit requires an X-based workstation or X-Terminal. If you have used  B<telnet>
or B<rlogin> to access the host Unix system, set the Unix environment variable for
your display:

csh-type shells:

   % setenv DISPLAY devicename:0

sh-type shells:

   % DISPLAY=devicename:0 && export DISPLAY

=item NEDIT_HOME

This environment variable can be set to the name of a
directory. This directory will then be used instead of
`$HOME/.nedit' as the base directory for NEdit's special
files (see section FILES, below).

This variable is new to NEdit 5.4.

=back

=head1 FILES

From version 5.4 on, NEdit creates a directory in which NEdit's
special files reside. This directory is named '.nedit' by default.

=over

=item I<nedit.rc>

This is an X resource file which contains most user settings for
NEdit. It is read at startup and written by selecting the item
'Save Defaults...' in the Preferences menu. Do not edit this
file by hand, all settings can be reached via the 'Default
Settings' menu.

=item I<nedit.history>

The list of recently opened files. Do not edit this
file by hand.

=item I<autoload.nm >

A file that can contain a number of NEdit Macro Language
statements and subroutine definitions. The statements will be
executed when an NEdit server starts, the subroutines will be
loaded for later reference.
This file will not be created or modified by NEdit (unless
you load it and edit it of course).

=back
                                       

Note that NEdit still supports the older names for these files,
which were used by version 5.3 and below. These legacy file names
are `$HOME/.nedit', `$HOME/.neditdb' and `$HOME/.neditmacro',
respectively. This legacy naming scheme will be used if NEdit
detects that `$HOME/.nedit' is a regular file.

See also the entry for NEDIT_HOME under ENVIRONMENT, above.

=head1 NOTES

For more information see NEdit's online help, or nedit.doc in the NEdit
distribution kit.

NEdit sources, executables, additional documentation, and contributed software
are available from the NEdit web site at http://nedit.org.

=head1 SEE ALSO

nc(1), X(1), mwm(1), ctags(1), etags(1)

=head1 AUTHORS

NEdit was written by Mark Edel, Joy Kyriakopulos, Christopher Conrad, Jim
Clark, Arnulfo Zepeda-Navratil, Suresh Ravoor, Tony Balinski, Max Vohlken,
Yunliang Yu, Donna Reid, Arne Forlie, Eddy De Greef, Steve LoBasso, Alexander
Mai, Scott Tringali, Thorsten Haude, Steve Haehn, Andrew Hood, and Nathaniel Gray.

The regular expression matching routines used in NEdit are adapted (with
permission) from original code written by Henry Spencer at the University of
Toronto.

Syntax highlighting patterns and smart indent macros were contributed by: Simon
T. MacDonald,  Maurice Leysens, Matt Majka, Alfred Smeenk, Alain Fargues,
Christopher Conrad, Scott Markinson, Konrad Bernloehr, Ivan Herman, Patrice
Venant, Christian Denat, Philippe Couton, Max Vohlken, Markus Schwarzenberg,
Himanshu Gohel, Steven C. Kapp, Michael Turomsha, John Fieber, Chris Ross,
Nathaniel Gray, Joachim Lous, Mike Duigou, Seak Teng-Fong, Joor Loohuis,
Mark Jones, and Niek van den Berg.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License in the Help section
"Distribution Policy" for more details. 

=cut
